Add content for CDC pipeline with Confluent (#4)
ddhodge/yugabyte-db: docs/content/preview/explore/change-data-capture/cdc-tutorials/cdc-confluent-cloud.md

---

## Confluent Cloud

This tutorial describes how to configure a YugabyteDB connector to publish changes to Confluent Cloud. Simultaneously, this assumes some familiarity with Docker and YAML files.

![Architecture of YugabyteDB to Confluent Cloud pipeline](/images/explore/cdc/confluent_images/cdc_confluent_cloud.png)

> ### Configuring Confluent Cloud cluster

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Configure a Confluent Cloud cluster
```

> First, you will need to setup a Confluend Cloud cluster on the provider of your choice. For more information, visit [Manage Kafka Clusters on Confluent Cloud](https://docs.confluent.io/cloud/current/clusters/create-cluster.html).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, you need to set up a Confluent Cloud cluster on the provider of your choice. For more information, refer to [Manage Kafka Clusters on Confluent Cloud](https://docs.confluent.io/cloud/current/clusters/create-cluster.html) in the Confluent documentation.
```

### Download the credentials

> Create a API key for your cluster and save it to be used further. See [Confluent Cloud API Keys](https://docs.confluent.io/cloud/current/access-management/authenticate/api-keys/api-keys.html) for reference.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create an API key for your Confluent cluster and save it. See [Confluent Cloud API Keys](https://docs.confluent.io/cloud/current/access-management/authenticate/api-keys/api-keys.html) for instructions.
```

### Create custom Kafka Connect image with YugabyteDB connector

> To create a Kafka Connect image with the YugabyteDB connector, we start with the [base image](https://hub.docker.com/r/confluentinc/cp-server-connect/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create a Kafka Connect image with the YugabyteDB connector, start with the [base image](https://hub.docker.com/r/confluentinc/cp-server-connect/).
```

> To create a Kafka Connect image with the YugabyteDB connector, we start with the [base image](https://hub.docker.com/r/confluentinc/cp-server-connect/).

Reviewer: what is the base image, first mention. do i download it it, or what

1. Create a directory which will be used to store all related files.

```sh
mkdir kafka-connect-ccloud && cd kafka-connect-ccloud
```

<!-- TODO Vaibhav: Step 2 and 3 can be combined, see why is not working -->

> 2. Download the YugabyteDB connector jar.

Reviewer: number all steps 1 that way you don't have to keep track
indent code blocks and other content under steps so it will be indented correctly on final page

```sh
curl -so debezium-connector-yugabytedb-1.9.5.y.22.jar https://github.com/yugabyte/debezium-connector-yugabytedb/releases/download/v1.9.5.y.22/debezium-connector-yugabytedb-1.9.5.y.22.jar
```

3. Create a `Dockerfile` with the following contents and build the custom image.

```Dockerfile
FROM confluentinc/cp-server-connect:7.4.0
ADD debezium-connector-yugabytedb-1.9.5.y.22.jar /usr/share/java/kafka/
USER 1001
```

> To build the image, execute the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. To build the image, execute the following command:
```

```sh
docker build . -t custom-connect:latest
```

> 4. Create a `docker-compose.yaml` file with the following contents.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Create a `docker-compose.yaml` file with the following contents:
```

      CONNECT_CONSUMER_REQUEST_TIMEOUT_MS: "20000"
      CONNECT_CONSUMER_RETRY_BACKOFF_MS: "500"
      #
      CONNECT_PRODUCER_SECURITY_PROTOCOL: "SASL_SSL"
      CONNECT_PRODUCER_SSL_ENDPOINT_IDENTIFICATION_ALGORITHM: "https"
      CONNECT_PRODUCER_SASL_MECHANISM: "PLAIN"
      CONNECT_PRODUCER_SASL_JAAS_CONFIG: "org.apache.kafka.common.security.plain.PlainLoginModule required username='CCLOUD_USER' password='CCLOUD_PASSWORD';"
      CONNECT_PRODUCER_REQUEST_TIMEOUT_MS: "20000"
      CONNECT_PRODUCER_RETRY_BACKOFF_MS: "500"
    command:
      - bash
      - -c
      - |
        echo "Launching Kafka Connect worker"
        /etc/confluent/docker/run &
        #
        echo "Waiting for Kafka Connect to start listening on localhost:8083 ⏳"
        while : ; do
            curl_status=$$(curl -s -o /dev/null -w %{http_code} http://localhost:8083/connectors)
            echo -e $$(date) " Kafka Connect listener HTTP state: " $$curl_status " (waiting for 200)"
            if [ $$curl_status -eq 200 ] ; then
            break
            fi
            sleep 5
        done
        #
        sleep infinity
```

{{< note title="Using Schema Registry" >}}

> If the configuration is such that it needs schema registry as well, then the following environment variables need to be added to the above docker compose file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the configuration is such that it needs schema registry as well, then you need to add the following environment variables to the Docker compose file:
```

```yaml
CONNECT_KEY_CONVERTER: io.confluent.connect.avro.AvroConverter
CONNECT_KEY_CONVERTER_SCHEMA_REGISTRY_URL: "https://SCHEMA-RGISTRY-CCLOUD-ENDPOINT.confluent.cloud"
CONNECT_KEY_CONVERTER_BASIC_AUTH_CREDENTIALS_SOURCE: "USER_INFO"
CONNECT_KEY_CONVERTER_SCHEMA_REGISTRY_BASIC_AUTH_USER_INFO: "SCHEMA_REGISTRY_USER:SCHEMA_REGISTRY_PASSWORD"
CONNECT_VALUE_CONVERTER: io.confluent.connect.avro.AvroConverter
CONNECT_VALUE_CONVERTER_SCHEMA_REGISTRY_URL: "https://SCHEMA-REGISTRY-CCLOUD-ENDPOINT.confluent.cloud"
CONNECT_VALUE_CONVERTER_BASIC_AUTH_CREDENTIALS_SOURCE: "USER_INFO"
CONNECT_VALUE_CONVERTER_SCHEMA_REGISTRY_BASIC_AUTH_USER_INFO: "SCHEMA_REGISTRY_USER:SCHEMA_REGISTRY_PASSWORD"
```

{{< /note >}}

{{< note title="Using Authentication" >}}

To configure authentication, follow the instructions on [Confluent docs](https://docs.confluent.io/ansible/current/ansible-authenticate.html).

{{< /note >}}

{{< note title="Using Authorization" >}}

To configure authorization, follow the instructions on [Confluent docs](https://docs.confluent.io/ansible/current/ansible-authorize.html).

{{< /note >}}

> 5. Start the Kafka Connect cluster

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Start the Kafka Connect cluster.
```

```sh
docker-compose up
```

> 6. [Deploy the connector](../debezium-connector-yugabytedb/#deployment)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. [Deploy the connector](../debezium-connector-yugabytedb/#deployment).
```
